


- I'll be describing our efforts to answer the
question: In the C. elegans embryo, which genes
are expressed in which cell?

Not that we'll necessarily answer that question.
But first, why do we care?

Sometimes, a gene is expressed in, and functions
in, a particular tissue. For instance, pha-4 
specifies where the pharynx is. It's expressed
in the pharynx, pharyngeal gland cells, and somewhat
in the valve cell.

Furthermore, where many genes are expressed is
important.

For instance, in the C lineage, 



Using automated lineage tracing, we can measure expression
in many cells.




Travis sorted 14 samples. 
This included several controls.

The mCherry reporters were somewhat dimmer.














How reproducible are the data?


Another way to look at this is to cluster samples with
similar expression profiles together.
The red AU numbers are "approximately unbiased" p-value,
calculated by multiscale bootstrap resampling.

"One can consider that clusters (edges) with high AU values
(e.g. 95%) are strongly supported by data."

Samples that cluster together have similar levels of
genes expressed in them. Reassuringly, the pha-4
replicates cluster together, as do two of three cnd-1
samples.

Note that the ungated samples cluster together, as do the singlets.
Also, note that the ceh-36 negatives -- that is, the genes not
expressing ceh-36 -- cluster with the ungated cells, whilst the
positives cluster with the singlets.














Splicing


What features of the transcriptome might differ
between tissues, besides "how much a gene is
expressed?"

Different splice forms are expressed in different
tissues. For instance, this gene has one splice
form enriched in 

Furthermore, since we're using strand-specific
sequencing, we can see whether the sense or antisense
strand is being expressed. In some 



We haven't done very much quantification of such
splicing and antisense, but we're hoping to do that.


Besides seeing what genes are enriched in individual
sort fractions, we can also see what genes are
enriched in groups of sort fractions. To do this,
we used hierarchical clustering, which is like that
figure I showed you before, except this groups the
samples and the genes. 









Whither unmixing?

We have been trying to find the difference between
theory and practice here. One difference is that
some cells are being lost. Possibly a bigger problem
is that the gating in the sorting, and the data from
imaging, isn't perfectly matched.

We're sequencing the negatives now, which besides
increasing our dynamic range, also may help with
the unmixing.





Future work





